Background
==========

@section(Geochemical characteristics of the Earth- Moon system:)
Lunar samples returned from the Apollo program was a giant scientific leap, bringing first samples from 
a planetary body other than the Earth. These samples revealed important geochemical characteristics of 
the Moon. It has a lower density than the Earth and bulk chondrites compared to the Earth’s mantle. 
However bulk analysis of the lunar basalts show higher FeO content than terrestrial basalts. Moon is 
enriched in the refractory elements than the Earth’s mantle, however it has higher abundance of 
siderophile elements which is a signature of a smaller core than rocky planets of similar size. The moon 
also shows depletion in the volatile elements.

Isotopic composition of the moon plays a significant role in understanding the Moon formation event. 
Oxygen isotopic system is a very important tool in cosmochemistry. In a three isotopic plot (18O/16O Vs 
17O/16O), samples from a single planetary body define a line of slope ~0.5 that indicates fractionation 
processes taking place on the planet.  However due to initial heterogeneity in the solar system is also 
reflected in this isotopic system in a way that that different planetary bodies sampling different 
isotopic reservoir will define different line with slope ~0.5. As shown in figure 1, terrestrial 
fractionation line represents the Earth-Moon system. However parent bodies of meteorites define distinctly 
different lines suggesting that the early solar system was heterogeneous. But the fact that Earth-Moon 
system has identical oxygen isotopic composition (Franchi et al 2001) is puzzling and can have three 
different interpretations. The simplest one is that the impactor has a similar isotopic composition as 
the Earth, which is less likely. Or Moon is made up of Earth’s mantle. Dynamic simulations of the giant 
impact show that the Moon is made up of ~80% of Earth’s mantle (Canup et al., 2004). However Pahlevan and 
Stevenson 2007 show that contribution from the impactor as less as ~3% should reflect in isotopic 
heterogeneity in Earth- Moon system. Third possibility is that the mixing in proto-lunar disk was so 
profound that the system reached equilibrium and no heterogeneities could survive (Pahlevan and Stevenson 
2007). 