Introduction
============

	Moon forming impact is a major event in the history of the Solar System that provides important 
insights into the Earth-moon system and on a broad scale, evolution of the solar system. Lunar 
exploration has been one of the high priorities since it is the closest planetary body. However the 
details of the processes that formed this lone satellite of the Earth remain unclear. As a result, 
understanding geochemical and dynamic processes that were the results of the moon forming impact and 
their effect on the evolution of the Earth-Moon system is one of the highest priorities for planetary 
science. 
	Formation of Moon is such a fundamental research theme that is the central subject of this research
project. Lunar samples returned from the Apollo program changed our understanding of Moon formation 
drastically. The primary results from the geochemical analysis of these samples suggest that Moon has
lower density than Earth and other rocky planets of its size range. There is a compositional similarity 
between the Earth and the Moon. Tungsten isotopic system suggests that the Moon formed at least 30 Ma 
later that the Earth (Touboul et al 2007). As a result, formation of the moon by an impact of a giant 
Mars sized object is a widely accepted current hypothesis by the scientific community. However the 
details of this event remain unclear. Simulation of the Moon forming impact and aftermath is a efficient 
way to understand these details. In this project we attempt to simulate the proto-lunar disk after the 
Moon forming impact to develop understanding of mixing of impactor mass with the Earth material and 
volatile transport. The results from this project will provide important constraints on the composition 
of the impactor and significant insights into the degree of mixing and transport of volatiles. 

	The result from this project will provide answers to questions, what was the degree of mixing between
the Earth material with the impactor in the proto-lunar disk? And what processes led to depletion of 
volatiles in the proto-lunar disk? This project proposes to provide significant insights into the 
formation of moon and evolution of Earth-Moon system. 
